# complexity_neglect_pred
 Code for the manuscript "Humans neglect Occam's razor in predictive model selection". The authors are Shuze Liu*, Yang Xiang*, and Samuel J. Gershman. Here, (*) denotes equal contribution.

 https://osf.io/preprints/psyarxiv/t2b9r_v1

- **Bold** words are .py, .ipynb, and .sh filenames.
- *Italicized* words are .csv and .pickle filenames or directory folder names.
- Some files are too large for the Github repository. They could be found in the OSF project repository: https://osf.io/48ren/overview?view_only=d339617113a648c087afd7c09dc0f9e7. To use them, download them from OSF and place them in corresponding folders, as indicated by the .gitignore file. 

The code runs on Python 3.9.5 and Numpy 2.0.2.

## Online experiments
- Experiment 1: https://gershmanlab.com/experiments/shuze/model_selection/exp1.html
- Experiment 2: https://gershmanlab.com/experiments/shuze/model_selection/exp2.html
- Experiment 3: https://gershmanlab.com/experiments/shuze/model_selection/exp3.html
- Experiment 4: https://gershmanlab.com/experiments/shuze/model_selection/exp4.html
  
## *Experiment* folder
- It contains the Javascript code for the experiment links above.
- The *data/exps* folder is current empty. Raw participant .csv datafiles should go here. For an anonymized datafile containing all participants' data, see the subfolder *analysis/data*.  

## *Simulations* folder
- It contains code for generating experimental stimuli: **dataset_gen_largenoise.ipynb** and **dataset_gen_smallnoise.ipynb**.

## *Analysis* folder
- **manuscript_allfigures_submission.ipynb** creates all figures for the manuscript, based on the human data and the saved model fit files.
- **parse_datafiles.ipynb** converts raw, participant-specific datafiles to files seen in the *data* subfolder.
- Other **.py** and **.sh** files are definitions and cluster .sh files for fitting the Null, Coarse, and Fine models. 

### *data* subfolder
- It contains raw human data for each experiment in .csv format.
- The file *df_allsimtrials.pickle* is too large for the Github repository. See OSF project for the file. 

### *fig* subfolder
- It contains all figures generated by **manuscript_allfigures_submission.ipynb** above.

### *modelfits* subfolder
- It contains saved files for HMC model fits, and their model comparison result.
- The NUTS trace files *glme_numpyro_2000_2000_coarse_seed0.pickle*, *..._full_...*, and *..._null_...* are too large for the Github repository. See OSF project for the files. 

